[SOUND]
In
this video, we're gonna be introducing
prime contract change orders.
We'll begin by navigating to the prime
contract tool.
[MUSIC]
Here across the top, we see the sub-tabs
that make up the prime contract name tab.
[MUSIC]
We've already set up some default
financial markups.
So let's click on the financial markups
sub tab to see how this is done.
These are edited by clicking the edit
button.
Here is where you set up your default
values for prime contract change orders.
As you can see, we have already set up
overhead and
profit with an 8% mark up and our bond at
1%.
Let's
get started by clicking on the change
order sub tab.
In Procore, change orders are managed
through a three tier hierarchy.
Change orders begin as a potential change
order.
This is where the cost is entered by
building out line items.
Potential change orders are then rolled up
into a change order request.
Once your change order requests have been
approved, they're
once again rolled up into a prime contract
change order.
Once a prime contract change order has
been approved, the overall budget is then
modified.
In order to generate a potential change
order, change order request, or prime
contract change
order click on the corresponding orange
button
on the right hand side of the screen.
Let's start by creating a potential change
order.
First we will enter in a title and then we
can select a status.
We can also create the change order
request, and prime contract change order,
that the potential change order will be
rolled up into at this time.
For the purposes of this demonstration,
you
will choose to create the change order
request.
[MUSIC]
You'll also see that our accounting method
is inherited from the prime contract.
Here, we can enter in a description,
indicate who the request was received
from,
indicate any schedule impact, and attach
any
files from your computer or from ProCore.
[MUSIC]
At the top, you will notice our breadcrumb
trail.
This is an easy way of always being able
to tell where you are in Procore and
to be able to navigate back to a
higher level simply by clicking one of
these links.
Save your changes and let's continue to
build out
our potential change order by adding some
financial line items.
We will begin by navigating to the
schedules
a values tab, and by clicking the edit
button.
We will now enter in a financial line item
for division
16 electrical for a new subpanel in the
amount of $22,000.
We will then click add.
You will now see the amount we entered in
at $22,000 listed here for the new sub
panel,
Procore automatically calculates our
overhead and profit and our
bond based on the financials that we just
set up.
Now let's go out and get some vendor
pricing.
I will now click on the create RFP button
next to the electrical sub contractor.
[MUSIC]
As you can see, Procore has already
created this RFP.
In a later video, I will show you how
to forward this on to your subcontractor
for pricing.
Now, let's go up one level for the list of
change order requests.
As you'll see, both the potential change
order and the change order request were
created.
The change order request contains only the
one potential change order.
Now let's drill into the change order
request.
Let's assume that we have received
approval for this change order request.
By clicking the edit button, we can mark
the status of this change order, as
approved.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
As you will see, this has also changed
the status of the potential change order
to approved.
Now, let's go back to our change orders
tool.
Now that we have the two approved change
order
requests, we're going to create a prime
contract change order.
We'll start by entering in a title,
selecting a due date.
And selecting our owner from the drop down
list.
We can enter in any other information and
then we
will select our change order requests from
the drop down list.
You can attach any relevant files from
your
computer or from Procore, and let's go
back to
your change orders tool to look at how
our approved changed order has affected
our overall budget.
If we click the PDF icon, it will print
our prime contract change order to PDF.
We can also go back to the general sub tab
of the prime contract main tab to view our
financial summary.
Here across the bottom we can see
our original contract price, or total
approved change
orders, our advised contract amount, our
total impending
change orders, and our impending revised
contract amount.
We can also click to view the budget
summary report which summarizes all of
this information.
This concludes our introduction of prime
contract changer orders.
If you have any questions, you can contact
our support staff or browse our
forums by clicking on the support button
in the top right corner of the screen.
[MUSIC]